So you would cut and allow that to bleed.
And... This is a 13th century... Yeah.
But this went back to the 6th century.
Yeah, they were doing this a whole lot.
So the reason this gets into your collection is it does have some medical application.
Right, yes.
And they vary the spot depending on the zodiac.
You figure out the sign of the Ziviak.
Yes.
You figure out the month.
700 years old.
And then you, and somebody then went through some things.
I'll show you what else this was good for.
These are some additional books that were bound with this kind of thing.
This is just normal decoration.
But somebody uses this, I guess, for a Christmas card or something.
And this one wasn't unique in that it had the anatomy there.
It is not common, but it's not rare.
In other words, this is not unusual.
And let me show you one more thing that goes back to the year of Columbus.
It's quite a collection, Doctor.
Well, here are the people you know of origin of species Darwin.
That's the first origin?
Yeah.
This is the first origin which Darwin presented to his nephew, Godfrey Welchwood.
And it is this letter from Darwin to my dear Godfrey, which he discusses.
It's a presentation copy from Charles Darwin.
But Darwin never inscribed these copies, but in this case, his letter was put in, and there's Garfield Waitsward.
His wife's family were Waitsward.
She was a Waitsward.
Right.
What else?
That's quite—that's what's known as a smallpox.
This is quite a library, Doctor.
This is a medical book.
This is a second edition.
This was about something like fifteen or fourteen
Oh, 1390.
So, 100 years before the discovery?
Yeah.
No, I don't know.
This was 1492.
I'm sorry.
Oh, this was the year, roughly.
This is the doctor.
They would bring down urine if you examine it.
And these were colored, and you'd make the diagnosis by the color of the urine.
Was that, was that pretty, was it sophisticated, or was it, again, pretty, uh... Well, you really told you what's going on.
But they knew that it was different and perhaps an indicator.
They didn't have the chemistry that we had, but... Yeah.
They tried, didn't they, huh?
Really, a rivalry of that time.
Here's whoever he is.
He was a lecturer.
Here are all the books that anyone could have had in medicine.
And this is a second edition which is excessively rare.
And among other things, it was printed in color.
Really?
Well, that must have been hand-tipped.
It couldn't have been printed in color.
It's all off in the same direction.
Look at it.
This comes off.
Every color is often the same.
You know, this, it says, this is the third color.
And all of the books, all of this edition has that.
And there's the, is it allogenical?
Close to it.
Which would indicate that it's printed now.
And this is an anatomy book.
So here's a deception.
Who this is, I don't know, but he's pointing, you see, at this point of the knife.
Oh, my God.
He is doing the cutting.
Dissection's in public again, but you see they're talking and they're arguing.
What is the title of this book, Doctor?
It's called Mundinus.
M-U-N-D-I-N-U-S.
I just want to write it down, but I'd like to check it out a little bit, too.
Mundinus.
How do you spell it?
M-U-N-D-I-N-U-S.
And here's the first edition of that same book.
Oh, wait a minute.
Let me do this.
Can I do this, please?
You can't do it without getting up here.
All right.
And this is, again, a rare bird.
Look at this one.
Oh, my goodness.
And it's by color again, right?
Here's where you cut the phlebotomy.
That's the best thing that there is, for anything.
There are diseases.
Is that the astrology?
The astrology figure, yeah.
Here's the disease of the woman.
There's pregnancy, little baby's got it.
Her heart, your heart isn't back there.
There's not quite a vacuum.
Oh, it's kind of like this.
This is real, real.
Seat of the past, so to speak.
Right.
So this is the first edition of that, which is...
And these were printed in Venice.
And this was 1491.
And the other was 1492.
But they reset the type entirely.
Yeah.
Well, as I say, I can keep going.
You need to show us a couple of these, perhaps.
I'll be happy to put those back up.
All right.
Maybe I should go up in it.
You're a big guy.
I'm a big guy.
I want to break the chair.
Doctor, do you think it goes in?
No, it's the spine's out.
The outs will be leaning over and it won't fit.
That's how you straighten it out and the other hooks can go beside it.
It goes in the corner?
Yeah.
I don't know how many titles altogether would you say in the collection review?
Have you cataloged it at all?
Yeah.
Humble, too.
You're humble.
Well, this is a... Thanks, man.
Thank you.
My pleasure.
Are you still practicing, Doctor?
No, I just stopped getting my lecture in the Ministry of Medicine because I figured I was forgetting the important thing, so I quit.
The books must have helped you, though, in those courses.
Our last session was always here.
Really?
I thought that was your favorite.
And I refused to have more than that.
I preferred twelve students.
Occasionally they got one or two more.
Were these first-year students, fourth-year students generally?
Well, I had a seminar of first-year students in the university, USC.
These were not medical students.
They just came in at the beginning, first course.
I had a summer school group of minority students and a seminar for the third-year medical students.
I wonder how many collectors you started amongst those.
Well, I think I could have my lead here now.
So the final class would be here.
Yes.
And tell me what this final class was like.
What books they were interested in.
But everything you had taught them in the semester pointed towards this culminating... Well, I had all the books that they talked about.
And this one was written by a doctor.
Mm-hmm.
And, uh, so it isn't really a medical book.
But somehow, to me, this involves... Well, it's certainly relevant.
Oh, look at that.
And Copernicus... Oh, he gave the battle.
This is the first Copernicus?
Yeah.
Oh, my goodness.
Now I'm getting a little... Now I'm getting very excited.
Nicolae...
It's called Pernica.
Let us know if we break it up.
It's a Pernica sliver.
And then somebody would check up on him, you see?
The guy who owned this.
We know that this belonged to Bishop Juan of Osmo.
Because this is his binding.
He was contemporary.
And there were lots of notes that they think were his writings.
so that he checked Matt.
In fact, there's one place Copernicus made and he's taken the dishes.
So you made these little compromises.
Well, it's not medicine, but... This is where the book lover takes over, I think.
Maybe.
And what's the year on that now?
That's the Feen 40 MDX LII 383.
Same years.
Very similar.
What I was saying is good people.
What a year when you come down to it.
Interesting.
Just into sum, if you have any thoughts on why book collecting seems to be particularly popular among... Doctors start every paper by giving history.
Every scientific paper that you'll ever see in any journal starts with the history of the subject.
quotes the people who were important early on, and then with the changes.
Doctors always have thought of their art and science as being part of the history.
And I think that that's why doctors continue to use, think of history, think of how it started.
And it's part of being... And then it's only a natural progression to want to have the artifacts...
to document it and to feel it.
That's brilliant.
I think that was my wife's question, by the way.
Well, Nick has brought up many times during his research that there's so many... So many doctors.
Well, I think that's... Really, I don't know of any other field where this is the custom and there's always been the history.
This makes me nervous.
Doctor, can I close this up and have Nick put this away from you?
I bet you know exactly where everyone is.
Every once in a while, forget.
I couldn't find that damn Darwin that's in there.
It was on this shelf.
Did you get nervous?
Well, I knew that I had it.
I didn't know where it was.
Doctor, I have to say, my husband does collect books and
It'll drive him crazy.
He won't remember where something is, but he'll dream.
I'll wake up at 5.30 in the morning and say, that's where it is.
He'll say, you touched it.
You put it in the area.
This is the first herbal printer by Peter Schaeffer.
Oh, Peter Schaeffer.
Well, you know, he's a colleague of Gutenberg.
This is the Gutenberg press that belonged to Fusten.
Well, can we have to take a look at this?
This is... Now you're going to the... Oh!
This is a Major League collection, Doctor.
You know that, huh?
I think.
Oh, boy.
That is type, huh?
Is that manuscript on the... This is manuscript.
That looks like manuscript.
Right.
That's just used for the binding.
Okay.
This is called prison.
Is this paper or vellum?
It's a pretty good rag, though, isn't it?
Does it have its cauliflower on it?
Well, this is not it?
No, but that's... Well, this would not be Goodenberg.
No, it would be... In fact, I don't think Goodenberg ever had a column.
Does it have a title?
You know, he didn't really go into it.
And, uh... You know, roughly when it was...
1548.
There it is.
1548, that's... Yeah.
It's still working, yeah.
Isn't it beautiful?
And, of course, the world medicine thing.
That was medicine.
Is the finding contemporary, do you think?
They think so.
Well, pretty remarkably, as a matter of fact.
Those picks were pretty well done.
They were rebound within a hundred years or so, after.
Well, because they were used.
Well, they were used.
But they were marvelous conditionals.
If you also saw some of the Huntington in those cases that had the original blending.
Beautiful.
All the questions are very conspiring.
Are you doing research out there?
Occasionally.
Today I am on the committee there, and they're having problems.
That's a secret.